[Feature] Add Orion Documentation (#4044)
ls1intum/Artemis: docs/user/orion.rst

> .. _orion:

Reviewer: In general, I suggest going through the documentation here and making the usage of a full stop at the end of a sentence consistent.

> .. _orion:

Reviewer: I suggest not writing "something will do something" but rather "something does something"

E.g. Not: The button will open a new window; But: The button opens a new window

> .. _orion:

Reviewer: What is the final solution regarding the translation? Depending on it I'd add a point here as well.

Author: I did not yet find time to look into it, I will add the required documentation afterwards.

Reviewer: Sounds good.

Orion
=====

.. contents:: Content of this document
    :local:
    :depth: 2

Overview
--------

> The `Orion plugin <https://github.com/ls1intum/Orion>`_ for `IntelliJ <https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/>`_ supports students, teaching assistants (tutors), and instructors with the conduction of programming exercises. It integrates Artemis in IntelliJ and automates the download and upload of exercises.

Author: I do, but I want to stay independent of git with my wording. The user does not need to care about the terminology of the underlying technology here. I go over the details further down

> The `Orion plugin <https://github.com/ls1intum/Orion>`_ for `IntelliJ <https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/>`_ supports students, teaching assistants (tutors), and instructors with the conduction of programming exercises. It integrates Artemis in IntelliJ and automates the download and upload of exercises.

Reviewer: However, when reading the terms uploading and downloading of exercises I first thought you'd refer to the import and export. Just to give you an understanding of why I ask about this.

> The `Orion plugin <https://github.com/ls1intum/Orion>`_ for `IntelliJ <https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/>`_ supports students, teaching assistants (tutors), and instructors with the conduction of programming exercises. It integrates Artemis in IntelliJ and automates the download and upload of exercises.

Author: I see. I added the git terms in brackets, hopefully that solves both issues

Installation
^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Orion is installed like every other plugin via IntelliJ's marketplace. Alternatively, the latest build can be found in `Orion's GitHub repository <https://github.com/ls1intum/Orion>`_ as described there.

Author: True, I added extra explanation where to find the steps. Normal users should not need to do it, but if they do, I want them to know where to look.

General Usage
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

After installation, Orion provides a custom tool window at *View -> Tool Windows -> Artemis*. This window contains an integrated browser displaying Artemis.

At the top of the tool window is a back button |back-button|. Clicking it will return to the initial page, that is:

- The exercise details page if an exercise is opened as a student
- The exercise edit in editor page if an exercise is opened as an instructor
- The assessment dashboard if an exercise is opened as a tutor, or, if a submission is downloaded, the assessment details page of that submission
- The Artemis home page if no Artemis project is opened

Settings
^^^^^^^^

Orion's settings are at *Settings -> Tools -> Orion*. The settings include:

> - The Artemis base url. Can be changed to switch to a specific Artemis instance. Defaults to https://artemis.ase.in.tum.de. **Important:** The url must not end with a /, otherwise it will not work!

Author: For me it looks like the image in the PR description, which seems to be fine

> - The Artemis base url. Can be changed to switch to a specific Artemis instance. Defaults to https://artemis.ase.in.tum.de. **Important:** The url must not end with a /, otherwise it will not work!

Author: Probably. I feel like cutting a trailing / is a very cheap solution, if I code something I would prefer some complete check that ensures the url is valid, but I did not yet find time to look into that

> - The Artemis exercise paths. Orion will suggest to store newly downloaded exercises at *default path/course/exercise name*, with the default path dependant of the setting.

Author: :+1:

- The default commit message

> - An option to change the user agent if needed as well as a button to restart the integrated browser. If Orion gets stuck restarting the browser might solve the issue without restarting IntelliJ.

Reviewer: I think you should specify the term "user agent".

Author: :+1:

> - An option to change the user agent if needed as well as a button to restart the integrated browser. If Orion gets stuck restarting the browser might solve the issue without restarting IntelliJ.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An option to change the user agent, if needed, as well as a button to restart the integrated browser. If Orion gets stuck, restarting the browser might solve the issue without restarting IntelliJ.
```

Author: :+1:

Problems
^^^^^^^^

> Please report any issues on `GitHub <https://github.com/ls1intum/Orion>`_.

Reviewer: I would not write only "GitHub" since I assume that most people access the documentation through GitHub anyway. Just another repository. So that's where the focus should lie on.

Author: :+1:

Orion for Students
------------------

Students can participate in programming exercises via Orion by performing the following steps:

 1. Navigate to the exercise using the integrated browser.
 2. After starting the exercise, a button to |open-in-intellij-button| appears.
 3. After cloning, the exercise can be solved in IntelliJ.

>  4. Orion provides a button to |submit-button|. This will automatically commit and push the local changes and display the result of the automatic tests in IntelliJ.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 4. Orion provides a button to |submit-button|. This will automatically commit, push the local changes and display the result of the automatic tests in IntelliJ.
```

Author: :+1:

> `Gif showcasing the usage for students <https://github.com/ls1intum/Orion#example-usage>`_

Reviewer: Could you rather integrate the gif in here? I know, duplication and so forth but I think it makes sense to keep everything within the documentation and only link to something else if it's not your own content or not possible to integrate.

Author: I inlined the gif now, so at least the user should not notice the difference anymore.

Orion for Instructors
---------------------

Instructors can set up programming exercises via Orion by performing the following steps:

>  1. The exercise needs to be created as described at the programming exercise creation step 1 and 2.

Reviewer: Consider referencing this via a relative link

Author: I tried, but it failed. https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/roles.html#cross-referencing-arbitrary-locations seems to be either inaccurate, or our files arent grouped correctly

 2. After the creation, navigate to the instructor exercise overview using the integrated browser
 3. Each programming exercise will provide a button to |edit-in-intellij-button|. The button is rightmost in the table an might require scrolling. This will download the template, solution and test repository of the exercise
 4. Edit the repository files in IntelliJ.

>  5. Orion provides a button to |submit-button|. This will commit and push all local changes to their respective repository.

Reviewer: For me, it triggers the test locally button as well. Is this only a graphical bug (we had already such issues with other buttons) or a functional issue?

Author: Both buttons get put into loading mode since you are not supposed to trigger two actions in parallel. It would suprise me if the test was actually executed

 6. The integrated browser displays the editor to edit the problem statement.

>  7. Orion also provides a button to |test-locally-button|, which will copy the local template or solution (whichever was selected) and the tests into a new folder and execute them locally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 7. Orion also provides a button to |test-locally-button|, which will copy the tests with the local template or solution (whichever was selected) into a new folder and execute them locally.
```

> Orion for Tutors

Reviewer: Is this really related to the roles themselves or rather the functionality? I think as an instructor I can assess as well with Orion, can't I?
If so, I'd suggest not referencing the roles but the functionalities in the captions.

----------------

Tutors can assess programming exercises via Orion by performing the following steps:

>  1. Navigate to the exercise's assessment dashboard using the integrated browser

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 1. Navigate to the assessment dashboard of the exercise using the integrated browser
```

>  2. There will be a button to |assess-in-orion-button|. It automatically downloads the automatic tests.

Reviewer: I suggest not using the buttons as text but referencing them only as buttons

Author: I don't understand this. You marked the only instance where the button is referred to as a button. Do you prefer to have all buttons like this?

Reviewer: I might have to rephrase what I mean:

The buttons have a text and it appears that you often try to include this text in your documentation. I think this is not a good style. You do this here as well (button to assess exercise in orion).

Author: I understand now. I adapted the style to match the rest of the documentation, using "click <button> to ..."

>  3. After downloading or opening the exercise in IntelliJ, the normal submission overview is shown in the integrated browser. Each submission can be opened in Orion, new submissions can be started by |start-assessment-in-orion-button|. This downloads the submission files and overwrites the previous submission.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 3. After downloading or opening the exercise in IntelliJ, the submission overview is shown in the integrated browser. Each submission can be opened in Orion, new submissions can be started by clicking |start-assessment-in-orion-button|. This downloads the submission files and overwrites the previous submission.
```

>  4. The student's code is in the directory *assignment*. The tests are in the directory *tests*. Additionally, there are two directories *template* and *studentSubmission* that contain internal files and should be ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 4. The student's code is in the directory `assignment`. The tests are in the directory `tests`. Additionally, there are two directories `template` and `studentSubmission` that contain internal files and should be ignored.
```

Author: I personally prefer the italics, since it is not code

Reviewer: Italics are supposed to be used for text that is less important than the main text. However, this is not the case here.
The inline code is my personal preference in markdown for such things but we could also make it bold.
Only italic I would not suggest due to the reasons mentioned.

Author: I disagree on the italics (e.g. [wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Italic_type) states: "Italics are a way to emphasise key points in a printed text, to identify many types of creative works, to cite foreign words or phrases, or, when quoting a speaker, a way to show which words they stressed.", but since other paths in the developer guide are also inline code, I'll do it as well.

>  5. Opening a file from the assignment opens the editor with two available modes, which can be switched using the tabs at the bottom of the editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 5. Opening a file in the `assignment` folder opens the editor with two available modes, which can be switched using the tabs at the bottom of the editor.
```

>    - In edit mode ("Text"), the files can be edited regularly, e.g. to try out fixes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - In the edit mode ("Text"), the files can be edited regularly, e.g. to try out fixes
```

Author: For me this feels wrong, but that might be my lack of english skills.

Reviewer: I think the article gets often omitted in common speech/slang but it's actually not correct so in a formal text we should include it.

Author: While [this](https://forum.wordreference.com/threads/in-the-mode.2813097/) is not really based on anything, they make a compelling argument that its also "in silent mode", not "in the silent mode".

>    - In assessment mode ("Assessment"), the files are read-only, but assessment comments can be added, similar to assessment in Artemis. Click the plus on the gutter on the left of the editor to add a new comment.

Reviewer: I suggest explaining what "Text" and "Assessment" mean => so that people know what to look out for

>    - In assessment mode ("Assessment"), the files are read-only, but assessment comments can be added, similar to assessment in Artemis. Click the plus on the gutter on the left of the editor to add a new comment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - In the assessment mode ("Assessment"), the files are read-only but assessment comments can be added similar to the assessment in Artemis. Click the plus on the gutter on the left of the editor to add a new comment.
```

Installation
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Orion is installed like every other plugin via IntelliJ's marketplace. Alternatively, although not usually needed, it is possible to install builds directly from `Orion's GitHub repository <https://github.com/ls1intum/Orion>`_. The installation process is described in the `readme <https://github.com/ls1intum/Orion#testing-of-pull-requests>`_.

General Usage
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

After installation, Orion provides a custom tool window at *View -> Tool Windows -> Artemis*. This window contains an integrated browser displaying Artemis.

At the top of the tool window is a back button |back-button|. Clicking it returns to the initial page, that is:

- The exercise details page if an exercise is opened as a student.
- The exercise edit in editor page if an exercise is opened as an instructor.
- The assessment dashboard if an exercise is opened as a tutor, or, if a submission is downloaded, the assessment details page of that submission.
- The Artemis home page if no Artemis project is opened.

Settings
^^^^^^^^

Orion's settings are at *Settings -> Tools -> Orion*. The settings include:

> - The Artemis base url. Can be changed to switch to a specific Artemis instance. Defaults to https://artemis.ase.in.tum.de. **Important:** The url must not end with a /, otherwise it does not work!

Reviewer 2: maybe better structure it like:
- The Artemis base url **:** ...
- ... : ...

Reviewer 2: and I would put `/` formatted as code to highlight it even more

> - The Artemis exercise paths. Orion suggests to store newly downloaded exercises at ``default-path/course/exercise-name``, with the default path dependant of the setting.

Reviewer 2: dependent?

Author: :+1:

- A button to restart the integrated browser. If Orion gets stuck, restarting the browser might solve the issue without restarting IntelliJ.

Problems
^^^^^^^^

Please report any issues on `Orion's GitHub repository <https://github.com/ls1intum/Orion>`_.

Participation in Orion
----------------------

Students can participate in programming exercises via Orion by performing the following steps:

 1. Navigate to the exercise using the integrated browser.
 2. After starting the exercise, click |open-in-intellij-button|.
 3. After cloning, the exercise can be solved in IntelliJ.
 4. To submit the changes, click |submit-button|. This automatically commits, pushes the local changes, and displays the result of the automatic tests in IntelliJ.

Gif showcasing the usage for students:

  .. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ls1intum/Orion/master/.github/media/orion_workflow.gif
            :align: center
            :width: 100%

Exercise Creation in Orion
--------------------------

Instructors can set up programming exercises via Orion by performing the following steps:

>  1. The exercise needs to be created as described at the exercise creation of programming exercises, step 1 and 2.

Reviewer 2: can we add a link here?

Author: I tried that, but it failed, see https://github.com/ls1intum/Artemis/pull/4044#discussion_r718518803

Reviewer: Would it be an option to add an absolute link that references the release documentation? => It will work on release?

 2. After the creation, navigate to the instructor exercise overview using the integrated browser
 3. Each programming exercise provides a button to edit the exercise in Orion |edit-in-intellij-button|. The button is rightmost in the table an might require scrolling. This downloads the template, solution and test repository of the exercise.
 4. Edit the repository files in IntelliJ.
 5. To submit the changes, click |submit-button|. This commits and pushes all local changes to their respective repository.

>  6. The integrated browser displays the editor to edit the problem statement.

Reviewer 2: maybe "to update the problem statement"? to avoid editor to edit (nit)

>  7. To test the code locally, click |test-locally-button|, which copies the tests with the local template or solution (whichever was selected) into a new folder and execute them locally.

Reviewer 2: execute**s** them locally?

Author: :+1:

Assessment in Orion
-------------------

Tutors can assess programming exercises via Orion by performing the following steps:

 1. Navigate to the assessment dashboard of the exercise using the integrated browser.

>  2. Click |assess-in-orion-button|. This automatically downloads the automatic tests.

Reviewer 2: how can the tests be downloaded? it downloads a repository/folder containing all the specified tests right? That could be described as such...

Author: I added "repository with the tests". I was a bit hesistant since technically it also downloads the template, but the user does not need to know that. Perhaps telling it sets up the project is sufficient for the user, what do you think?

Reviewer 2: yes, "sets up project" sounds good

 3. After downloading or opening the exercise in IntelliJ, the submission overview is shown in the integrated browser. Each submission can be opened in Orion. To start a new submission, click |start-assessment-in-orion-button|. This downloads the submission files and overwrites the previous submission.

>  4. The student's code is in the directory ``assignment``. The tests are in the directory ``tests``. Additionally, there are two directories ``template`` and ``studentSubmission`` that contain internal files and should be ignored.

Reviewer 2: don't the template and studentSubmission directories contain the template and studentSubmission files? It's a bit misleading that the student's code is found in assignment if there is a directory called studentSubmission. I know that this is not part of this PR, but it becomes visible in this PR :D is there the possibility to prefix such internal dirs with `internal` ? Just an idea...maybe off topic

Author: The absolute truth is the studentRepository is - technically - not even required, since git should be able to track what the tutor changed and be able to retrieve the last submission without having to store a copy. But I was unable to get the git plugin to do this. I also tried to configure the folder in a way that IntelliJ hides it automatically. This also failed. But now that I think of it its probably possible to get Orion to treat the files from studentRepository equal to the ones from assignment, so the tutor can open either with the same result. I will try to do that and update the documentation afterwards.

Overview
--------

The `Orion plugin <https://github.com/ls1intum/Orion>`_ for `IntelliJ <https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/>`_ supports students, teaching assistants (tutors), and instructors with the conduction of programming exercises. It integrates Artemis in IntelliJ and automates the download (clone) and upload (push) of exercises.

Installation
^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Orion is installed like every other plugin via IntelliJ's marketplace. Alternatively, although not usually needed, it is possible to install builds directly from `Orion's GitHub repository <https://github.com/ls1intum/Orion>`_. The installation process is described in the `readme <https://github.com/ls1intum/Orion#testing-of-pull-requests>`_.

Author: :+1:

General Usage
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

After installation, Orion provides a custom tool window at *View -> Tool Windows -> Artemis*. This window contains an integrated browser displaying Artemis.

At the top of the tool window is a back button |back-button|. Clicking it returns to the initial page, that is:

> - The exercise details page if an exercise is opened as a student.

Author: Personally, I downloaded the artifact from the doc action and opened it locally. The page at the link is also broken for me. But since also the content list is broken (and that is purely autogenerated), I assume its a problem on their side.

> - The exercise details page if an exercise is opened as a student.

Reviewer: Yes, thanks. That works.

- The exercise edit in editor page if an exercise is opened as an instructor.
- The assessment dashboard if an exercise is opened as a tutor, or, if a submission is downloaded, the assessment details page of that submission.
- The Artemis home page if no Artemis project is opened.

Settings
^^^^^^^^

Orion's settings are at *Settings -> Tools -> Orion*. The settings include:

- Artemis base url: Can be changed to switch to a specific Artemis instance. Defaults to https://artemis.ase.in.tum.de. **Important:** The url must not end with a ``/``, otherwise it does not work!
- Artemis exercise paths: Orion suggests to store newly downloaded exercises at ``default-path/course/exercise-name``, with the default path dependent of the setting.
- Default commit message: The default message for each commit.

> - Change user agent: The user agent is sent to Artemis to identify Orion. I needs to contain "Orion/*orion-version*". Usually, no changes are required.

Author: Oh right, good catch. Sorry, I mixed it up. The Orion header is added later so the user cannot mess it up. Removed that.

- Restart the integrated browser: If Orion gets stuck, restarting the browser might solve the issue without restarting IntelliJ.

Problems
^^^^^^^^

Please report any issues on `Orion's GitHub repository <https://github.com/ls1intum/Orion>`_.

Participation in Orion
----------------------

Students can participate in programming exercises via Orion by performing the following steps:

 1. Navigate to the exercise using the integrated browser.
 2. After starting the exercise, click |open-in-intellij-button|.
 3. After cloning, the exercise can be solved in IntelliJ.

>  4. To submit the changes, click |submit-button|. This automatically commits, pushes the local changes, and displays the result of the automatic tests in IntelliJ.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 4. To submit the changes, click |submit-button|. This automatically commits and pushes the local changes and displays the result of the automatic tests in IntelliJ.
```
Sorry, I now realised that the and is required since commit also relates to the local changes.

> Gif showcasing the usage for students:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Gif showcasing the usage for students:
```

  .. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ls1intum/Orion/master/.github/media/orion_workflow.gif
            :align: center
            :width: 100%

Exercise Creation in Orion
--------------------------

Instructors can set up programming exercises via Orion by performing the following steps:

 1. The exercise needs to be created as described at the exercise creation of programming exercises, step 1 and 2.

>  2. After the creation, navigate to the instructor exercise overview using the integrated browser

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 2. After the creation, navigate to the instructor exercise overview using the integrated browser.
```

>  3. Each programming exercise provides a button to edit the exercise in Orion |edit-in-intellij-button|. The button is rightmost in the table an might require scrolling. This downloads the template, solution and test repository of the exercise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 3. Each programming exercise provides a button to edit the exercise in Orion |edit-in-intellij-button|. The button is rightmost in the table and might require scrolling. Clicking it downloads the template, solution and test repository of the exercise.
```

 4. Edit the repository files in IntelliJ.
 5. To submit the changes, click |submit-button|. This commits and pushes all local changes to their respective repository.
 6. The integrated browser displays the editor to update the problem statement.
 7. To test the code locally, click |test-locally-button|, which copies the tests with the local template or solution (whichever was selected) into a new folder and executes them locally.

Assessment in Orion
-------------------

Tutors can assess programming exercises via Orion by performing the following steps:

 1. Navigate to the assessment dashboard of the exercise using the integrated browser.

>  2. Click |assess-in-orion-button|. This automatically sets up the assessment project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 2. Click |assess-in-orion-button| to automatically set up the assessment project.
```

 3. After downloading or opening the project in IntelliJ, the submission overview is shown in the integrated browser. Each submission can be opened in Orion. To start a new submission, click |start-assessment-in-orion-button|. This downloads the submission files and overwrites the previous submission.
 4. The student's code is in the directory ``assignment``. The tests are in the directory ``tests``. Additionally, there are two directories ``template`` and ``studentSubmission`` that contain internal files and should be ignored.
 5. Opening a file in the ``assignment`` directory opens the editor with two available modes, which can be switched using the tabs at the bottom of the editor.

>    - In edit mode (tab "Text"), the files can be edited regularly, e.g. to try out fixes.
>    - In assessment mode (tab "Assessment"), the files are read-only, but assessment comments can be added, similar to the assessment in Artemis. Click the plus on the gutter on the left of the editor to add a new comment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - In edit mode ("Text" tab), the files can be edited regularly, e.g. to try out fixes.
   - In assessment mode ("Assessment" tab), the files are read-only, but assessment comments can be added, similar to the assessment in Artemis. Click the plus on the gutter on the left of the editor to add a new comment.
```
